THE
ROADMAP
HANDBOOK
TBWA & BBDO
COPENHAGEN
This handbook is a working
document that will guide
and inspire you through
our Disruption strategy
                ®

and its implementation.
Step, by step, by step.
There are three cornerstone elements in play when
designing a Disruption® strategy.
The Convention, Disruption and the Vision.
This is a non-linear three step methodology first
introduced in the 90’s to TBWA, but how does it work for
us in Copenhagen and what is it really...
We’ve sliced and diced the process for it to be a tailor fit
here in our quaint little office, and we’re very excited to
unveil it to you!
                                                                DISRUPTION
                                                                questioning status quo

                                                             feeding live events to the work
CONVENTION                                                         insight synthesis
  market mapping
                                                                    idea generation
 audience tracking

  brand dissecting




                                VISION
                        workshopping with the client

                     developing ideas, strategic direction

                                future edging
Our mission is to kill boring and crack cultural norms or codes.
We begin with Convention. This is the boxed-in customs that define
the brand or industry of our clients. Through this we discover the
accepted wisdom the consumer or brand is stuck in. This allows us to
grasp the status quo before unraveling or questioning it.
Then we need a Vision, which steers everything that the brand does.
Emerging cultural signals and mega trends frame the future world
our client brands will inhabit. They show what trends you want to
respond to and benefit from in the long-term. From this the pillars
and communication focal points are chosen.
For us to break Convention, and to move toward our Vision, we need
to conceive an idea that is as provocative as it can be. We call this
“the Disruption.” This is an original angle on the business that helps
untie Conventions it is trapped in and allow the brand to leap ahead
of the competition. Our process for developing this brilliant, one-of-a-
kind, anti-mundane, never seen and exciting idea is rather simple, but
requires time and dedication. A process of workshopping, exercising,
scenario building and testing all ideas.
Convention, Vision,
and Disruption: taken
together, these constitute
our operating system.
This is how we find
growth.
CONVENTION
                    What.
                    A Convention is synonymous with status quo, norms,
market mapping      customs and codes. At the heart of a Convention ex-
                    ists an architecture, which is the structures, processes
audience tracking   and frame – or the core routines – which the orga-
brand dissecting    nization and its key reference points in a wider net-
                    work of competitors, customers and suppliers have
                    learned and embedded. This box is hard to break as
                    it is continuously reinforced by the environment.
                    Why.
                    The key in this step is identifying assumptions about
                    a market, consumer or cultural ideal and finding the
                    reality and innovation opportunity in that assump-
                    tion.
                    How.
                    The key points to identity are illustrated to the right,
                    how these are identified depend on the brief, bud-
                    geting and project. These points should then be
                    converted to actionable insights that can inform the
                    subsequent steps. This is a reference point for all fu-
                    ture communication design for the brand.
                        INVESTIGATION
               key points to identify in the report

                  Internal                                               External
                                                        overview of industry standards and norms
business model : how do they create value?


                                                        competitor analysis: what are others doing?
internal hierarchies: flow of information and process


                                                        brand perception: what do customers think?
current vision, mission, and values


                                                        brand norms: what are the standard moves?
company goals


                                                        consumer habits: which trends are in play?
historical context: what baggage do they carry?


perception of employee attitudes and capabilities
VISION             What.
                   The Vision is a defined idea of where the brand
future edging      imagines itself in the future, creating longevity and a
                   clear definition of what the brand stands for.
business hacking
composing vision   Why.
                   In a market where competitors are developing so fast
                   and the array of communications channels multiplies
                   almost daily there is a risk of getting lost on the way,
                   or scattering in all directions. Having a strong Vision
                   can prevent from coming up with off-track initiatives.
                   How.
                   Investigating the future situation of the market is
                   achieved through mapping the mega-trends of to-
                   day and tomorrow. These may affect the behaviour
                   or codes of the industry and assures that the end vi-
                   sion takes the changing nature of the market into
                   account. Designing the Vision is supported through
                   creating brand pillars, which are the core character-
                   istics that define the brand. These are translated into
                   communication points that can be used to refer to
                   when designing communications solutions.
                                          CULTURE
                                                                          Mega-Trend
                                                                        Mapping: Edging
                                                                      cultural insights that are not
                      LOCAL IS                NO THANKS TO            plotted on a specific time axis. They
                     FAVOURED                  PACKAGING
                                                                      are part of the larger cultural shifts
                                                                      that change the ways of being and
                                                                      knowing
                                                      CONVENIENCE
                            THE SHARING
                                                      IS KEY TO THE
                             ECONOMY
                                                          HEART
                                                                      industry, audience and market
                                                                      oriented

                                                                      long-term
  SOCIAL               SOCIAL
 MESSAGING           ECOMMERCE




             MEDIA




LIVE STREAMING
  Specific Example
each edge corresponds to a certain instance where
the trend is being employed. Demonstrating the
mega-trends as specific examples illustrates the
abstract movements more clearly, making them
more understandable.




                                                    MEDIA




                                                      How “fresh” is fresh?

                                                      Belgian supermarket chain Delhaize recently launched live streams from their local fruit produce
                                     LIVE STREAMING   grower. The brand created the campaign “Delhaize Live Harvest” to promote the freshness of fruits
                                                      and vegetables sold at its stores by broadcasting growing fruits and vegetables live on digital bill-
                                                      boards and online banners around the country.

                                                      Sometimes, it simply just doesn’t suffice to write copy about product freshness and short routes be-
                                                      tween harvesting and getting produce on supermarket shelves. This campaign is a good example of
                                                      the importance of brands of trying to be as authentic as possible.

                                                      Sustainability and high-quality are becoming more and more important for consumers, particularly
                                                      when it comes to what they put in their bodies. And while a lot of supermarkets promote that their
                                                      products are sustainable and fresh, how can customers really know that this is the truth? Brands like
                                                      Delhaize are turning Authenticity into a credible brand experience.
Brand Pillars
                Communication Points




                                       Working with Pillars
                                       and Communication
                                             Points
                                       the pillars are the most defining and
                                       core characteristics of the brand.
                                       They are therefore the foremost
                                       influence on the communication
                                       points.
DISRUPTION
                     What.
                     Disruption is the process of being or staying competitive and
                     reactive in a market. This involves establishing the fundamental
cracking the codes
                     changes that must occur for a business to become disruptive or
insight synthesis    innovative. Businesses must turnover their processes and look
idea generation      for new ways to seize opportunities in the market. An element
live feed            of looking out into the market to establish an overview of trends,
                     competitors and attitudes must be implemented in order to define
                     the Conventions. A Vision has been designed from those insights
                     through mapping future shifts and deciding on the pillars and
                     communication points. This is compounded into knowledge that
                     helps design a reaction or Disruption that shifts the architecture
                     and perspective of the business. From there communication
                     initiatives are activated, that is how Disruption is designed!
                     Why.
                     To break with convention, and to move toward our vision, we need
                     to conceive an idea that is as provocative as it can be. We call
                     this “the Disruption.” This is an original angle on the business that
                     helps untie conventions it is trapped in and allow the brand to
                     leap ahead of the competition. This is about designing a bridge
                     between the Conventions and the Vision.
Disruption Day
workshopping




                                                                    ins
                                                  wh




                                                                       igh
cross disciplinary teams                              at
                                                           if




                                                                          tm
                                                                ex
                                                                  er




                                                                            ini
                                                                    cis




                                                                               n
scalable                                                               es




                                                                               g
                                      hone in
                                                  on one
                                                 trend
                             dreaming of new altern
                                                    ate
                             business models
                                                                                                scenario building
                           new product or service                                    RADICAL
                                                                       cs,
                           planning                           n a lyti             INNOVATION   testing and value
                                                       le, A
                                                M  obi                                          assessment
Convention                                 ial,      torm
                                   I ( Soc rains                 ow
findings on norms              AC         )b                 l n ers
                            SM d, IoT                   u ra     g
                                 u
                                                     ult trig




                                                                     liz l
                             Clo




                                                                   ca a
                                                  n c nd




                                                                 di on
insights




                                                                        e
                                                i




                                                               ra nti
                                             g        a
                                          kin ents


                                                            s & nve
                                        a
                                       b m
                                         mo
                                                          om co                                      DISRUPTION
Vision                                                 sd n
                                                     wi 0 oo

                                                                                                      STRATEGY
mega-trends
                                                       18




brand points
How.
The most strenuous step in the process Disruption is a long very difficult as it defines the brand or
communications strategy. It must be sharp enough to create impact. And broad enough to carry a brand
through an entire market cycle.
What if exercises is a tool for workshopping a Disruptive idea. It involves coming up with ‘What If’ questions
that are completely unexpected and that prompt an exploration of the ideas and situation that the brand
is in. These are noted, discussed, mulled over and are a way of challenging the idea generation to be less
generic. It encourages a new perspective on problem situations and challenges the agency to take a more
exploratory route to the solution.
180o on the accepted wisdoms, is a discussion where one aspect of the business or communications is
completely altered. This should inspire radicalization and loosen the frame for what is possible. This moves
innovation and Disruption away from creating incremental changes to more radical ones.
The exercise of working with the insights is about turning information into insights that can guide the design
of the final solution. This is done by gathering the information and discussing how it can be used to influence
the business model, the communications or habits of the consumers, brand or competitors.
The process of monitoring media, cultural happenings and live events helps to inform the creatives on the
types of triggers and moments that are significant to the brand and its audience. By tracking, analyzing and
baking in this aspect brings the solution closer to the cultural now of the brand.
Throughout this process, teams should always be mixed. Both from the agency, business and even external
contributors at all levels. This ensures that the workshopping does not remain in the ‘box’.
Lastly, the scenarios are evaluated and built into scenarios for the teams to decide on.
                          LIVE TRIGGER FEED
                        key process to integrate
           a trigger is a specific cultural signal, often local, that points to a broader theme or
        cultural shift, alternatively it can also be a happening that gains traction and hype due
        to its relevance or humour - either way it should have happened in the last 24-48 hours

                    Types                                                    Open Briefing
REAL TIME
use unplanned triggers that happen in real-time               flexible schedule

                                                              gather the D-Live team
trending topics / moments
                                                              go through all triggers
daily / hourly monitoring
                                                              select triggers relevant to the clients
PLANNED
predict opportunities for cultural moments                    brainstorm solutions / creative outputs
that will affect clients and audiences
                                                              open briefing summary
cultural calendar

monthly planning
   TBWA & BBDO
  Bredgade 6, 3tv
1260, Copenhagen
