The best
way for
a cllıent
to brief
an agency
Written by BetterBriefs and Mark Ritson
in partnership with the IPA
                                          1
Contents




The importance of briefs	            4

Marketing strategy shapes briefs	    8

Writing briefs	                     13

Briefing the brief	                 20
1
2
“A brief is not
about writing,
it’s about thinking”
Dave Trott
The purpose of this guide is to help clients write the best possible briefs
for their agencies. It comes at a watershed moment. Marketers have
more tools at their disposal than ever before to connect with people
and to measure the effectiveness of what they do. Except none of this
matters if the one thing that everything hinges on – the brief – isn’t clear,
isn’t thought through and isn’t right.

A brief is a roadmap for creative thinking. It is a critical juncture in the
transfer of information from marketer to agency. It defines the desired
outcome of a given activity and guides the task at hand. Briefs play
a crucial role in steering the creative process, which is elusive and
unpredictable by nature.

Briefs written by marketers for their agencies should command attention
and care. By its very definition, a brief is about giving an agency the right
information so that it can come back with the best possible solution. Often
however, what’s briefed lacks direction at best and is confusing at worst.

So, the role of this guide is two-fold. Firstly, to provide a practical tool to
help marketers write better briefs underpinned by rock-solid strategic
thinking. And, secondly to create a shared understanding between
marketers and agencies as to what constitutes a good brief (and briefing).
Because ultimately, we all want the same thing: more impactful and
effective work that delivers better business results. This guide is about
putting the thinking back into the brief.
                                                                               3
The
importance
of briefs
There is a lot of pressure on marketers and agencies to create
ideas that deliver a positive ROI. And briefs are one of the most
important tools marketers have to create impactful and effective
work1. However, the quality of the briefs brands sent to agencies
leaves much to be desired; 4 in 5 agencies believe that marketers
don’t understand what they need from briefs2. And with growing
scrutiny on marketing budgets, poor quality briefs are putting
brands in peril.

1 BetterBriefs Project global report 2021: 90% of marketers and 89% of creative agencies agree "It’s difficult to
  produce good creative work without a good marketing brief"
2 BetterBriefs Project global report 2021: 80% of creative agencies indicate their clients have a poor or limited
  understanding of what they need from a brief

1
4
80%
of marketers
think they're
good at
writing briefs   Only


                 10%
                 of agencies
                 agree



                               5
Poor briefs don’t allow agencies to solve problems or seize opportunities
identified by marketers. If briefs are unclear, then agencies can’t be sure
what’s expected of them. At which point the second guessing begins.
Good briefs guide creative thinking and act as a neutral reference point
for assessing the work. Often, the root cause is marketers’ and agencies’
inability to see eye-to-eye on what a good brief looks like. 80% of marketers
think they’re good at writing briefs. Only 10% of agencies agree3.

Unchallenged, poor briefs trigger a raft of negative consequences. They
lead to confusion, shallow creative thinking and often mediocre ideas.
Which in turn lead to unhappy clients, rounds and rounds of creative
work, rebriefs, de-motivation and ultimately less effective work in-market.
The BetterBriefs study found that one third of all marketing budgets4 are
potentially wasted due to poor briefs and misdirected work.

In its simplest form, a good client brief defines what a brand wants
an agency to do. It explains succinctly the need for a creative idea..
It summarises the need for advertising and the marketing strategy
that’s in place. It clearly defines the boundaries for creative thinking,
sets clear expectations and provides the essential information. A simple
rule: if there isn’t a well-defined marketing strategy in place, there can
be no brief.

It is the agency’s job to take this strategy and use creative and media
smarts to achieve the defined goals in the most efficient way possible.
Unfortunately, 60% of marketers use the creative process to clarify their
strategies5 rather than being clear about these from the outset. In fact,
UK data indicates this behaviour is only becoming more prevalent.

A good brief doesn’t guarantee success but it improves the chances
greatly. However, while most marketers and agencies agree that briefs
are important, they are currently being neglected6.



3, 4, 5 BetterBriefs Project global report 2021
6 BetterBriefs Project global report 2021: 90% of marketers and 92% of creative agencies agree "The brief is
   one of the most valuable and paradoxically most neglected tools marketers have to create good work"



6
The creative
process is            79%                    81%
                                             of
used to clarify       of
                      creative
                                             creative
                                             agencies
the strategy          agencies
                      agree
                                             agree

more now
than it used                     57%
                                 of
to be                            marketers
                                 agree




                       2003

                                              2021
          35%
          of
          marketers
          agree




“Writing bad
briefs is the
most expensive
way to write
advertising”
Sir John Hegarty
                                                        7
Marketing
strategy
shapes
briefs
By Mark Ritson


Most marketers, a whopping 95% of them, don’t provide
strategic direction to their agencies. They fail for two reasons.
First, because they don’t have strategic clarity themselves.
Second, because they cannot communicate it to their agencies
via the brief.

Let’s tackle the first of those two challenges because, without
first achieving strategic clarity, it’s impossible to provide it to
others. And because the second challenge is covered later
in this guide. Almost like we were planning it that way.
185
Strategy
before Tactics
Your first job is to resist tactical temptations.

Too many marketers busy themselves with these before they have
articulated the strategic problem. Think of strategy as the plan of attack
and tactics as the means by which that plan will be executed. Every
time someone talks prematurely about YouTube or a direct distribution
model, whack them over the head with something heavy.

Note: Strategy comes from "strategos", the Greek word for "general",
one who make decisions, not those who throw spears.




Strategy
is Sacrifice
Badly run brands try to do everything, all the time, to everyone.

Better brands are selective and selfish. Their strategies revolve as much
around what they will not do, as what they intend to achieve. Be selfish,
be different, be ready to say no to what everyone else says yes to. The
essence of strategy, as Professor Michael Porter always reminds us, is what
we are not going to do. Our subsequent focus is stored for what remains.

Note: Always subtract, never add. There will be other years and other
opportunities. For now focus is your God.




                                                                             9
Complexity
breeds Simplicity
We’ve all seen super-complex strategies that can’t fit into less than
fifty-pages or two hour presentations.

Each is the result of under-thinking and culminates in a pointless strategy
that no-one can understand or execute. Think long and hard and often
about your strategy. Dwell on it. Revise it. Test it. Rewind and replay it in
the shower. Run it past the smartest person in the room. As you work
your strategy it will become shorter, simpler, more elegant and beautiful.
Sometimes so beautiful the people that are meant to follow it give you
the ultimate compliment: that it is obvious. Yes, you smile warmly. Yes,
it is. Go and do it.

Note: Learn to separate the complex, uncertainty of strategic
thinking from the simplicity of the strategy that emerges from it.




Who will the strategy focus on?
Targeting
One third of your strategy should be occupied with the 'who'.

Targeting is immensely complex because it encompasses both the
challenge of sophisticated mass marketing and the potential for multiple
target segments. Be clear who the brand is going after and equally clear
on who it is not. Use data to create a portrait of the target: a realistic,
contextualised picture of who these people are, what they want and
how they decide. Don’t talk about the brand here, talk about the target.
They are more important and bigger than your brand.

Note: Demographic cliches like “millennials” are as sure a sign as
any that you have not got a strategy.

1
10
What is the offer to the target?
Positioning
A third of your strategy should focus on the brand position.

Positioning is not an end in itself. It is not the creation of a long report or
the application of lots of concepts like essence, purpose, identity and
proposition. All these words are synonyms. The ultimate aim of a position,
or whatever you choose to call it, is to create that thought in the mind
of the target. Focus on the distinctive assets of the brand and the
intended message you want the brand to stand for. Three words are
always more effective than thirty.

Note: If you cannot remember the various claims of your brand without
the assistance of Powerpoint, you are doomed. So is your brand.




How will we win with this target?
Objectives
It’s one thing to know the position, quite another to know what the
objective is.

Obviously, it is ultimately sales and profit. But these are the outcomes,
not the objectives that will deliver them. Do we want to make the target
aware of us? To prefer us? To visit our website? To buy us again? Review
all the contingent steps in the consumer’s approach to the brand and focus
on the very few things that will tip the balance in your brand’s favour.
Research suggests that as you add more objectives the likelihood of
any of them working diminishes dramatically. Keep it tight. A handful
of objectives at most. Focus here more than anywhere else.

Note: Learn to write objectives smartly – with benchmarks, realistic
but valuable goals, and a time stamp for their achievement.


                                                                             11
Strategy
then Brief
Don’t even think about briefing until your strategy is complete.

Never be afraid to re-visit it with a big, red pen. Remembering all the
time that when It is ready, it will never be perfect because such things
are impossible. However, it will not be what most brands brief agencies
with these days: a half-baked strategy that continues to change. That’s
like changing the ingredients while the dish is cooking in the oven. Nail
the strategy, only then turn to the challenge of briefing it in.

Note: This is not a final reminder to work hard and finish ahead of
the brief. It’s a reminder to start on your strategy months before
the briefing is scheduled, so you have enough time to do it properly.
 




1
12
Writing
briefs
By BetterBriefs




A good brief is never easy to write 7.

Think of it as a series of decisions that together makes
a well-reasoned case for advertising. It is never a box-ticking
exercise.

7 BetterBriefs Project global report 2021: 82% of marketers and 83% of creative agencies agree "Writing briefs
  is hard’’

                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                           13
Define the need
for advertising
Brands use agencies to come up with ideas they can’t think of themselves.

A good brief is laser-focused on the problem or opportunity the creative
work needs to solve and acts as a compass for creative thinking. It clarifies
the need for advertising and establishes expectations for the agency.
It is the responsibility of the marketer to provide clear strategic direction
in every brief. You’ll soon discover this is what agencies thrive on.

Note: Clearly articulate 'why' this brief is necessary.




One brief
= one strategy
Briefs are an exercise in binary thinking.

Brief writers must be clear in their choices. Deciding whether a brief is
acquiring new customers, upselling to existing ones, or increasing
frequency of purchase requires a choice. When it comes to briefs they
are mutually exclusive. The need to address more than one of these
choices requires multiple briefs.

Note: Writing more than one brief is often a valid solution.




1
14
Build the
backbone
A good brief requires a strong backbone.

The backbone consists of the objectives, the target audience and the
budget. Together they set the parameters of what’s possible and what’s
not. They are intrinsically linked, so think about them holistically.

The objectives shape the budget. The budget determines the audience
size, and the size of the target audience must be able to realise the
objectives while staying within budget. You can’t target everyone in the
category if the budget isn’t big enough. And if one changes, the other
two must be modified. A lower budget means less ambitious objectives
and a smaller target audience.

Note: Justifying an investment in marketing (budget) to the business
is easier when the objectives and target are well-defined.




Set linked
objectives
Businesses invest in advertising to drive better results.

Objectives are the most critical yet most poorly defined element of every
brief8. Well-defined objectives outline the desired outcomes a brand
aims to achieve. They paint a clear picture of success and how it will be
measured. To help set the direction of the brief, three types of objectives
must be considered.




8 BetterBriefs Project global report 2021: 61% of marketers and 71% of creative agencies rank objectives as
  the most critical element of marketing briefs

                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                              15
1 Commercial objectives capture the ultimate effect that the activity
  will have on the organisation (e.g. sales, profit, cost savings to the
  community). It is what the CFO and non-marketers look at most.

2 Behavioural objectives underpin the commercial objectives. They
  specify the change needed in people’s behaviour to realise the
  commercial objectives (e.g. signing up, downloading, adding more
  items to the basket, quitting a bad habit or making healthier choices).

3 Attitudinal objectives are crucial because people don’t just suddenly
  change the way they behave. A shift in the way people think or feel
  is required to trigger the desired change in behaviour.

Note: These three types of objectives should be linked and logical.
Avoid being wishful.




Target the
right people
Your audience isn’t everyone, and not everyone buys your product.

Few brands have the necessary budget to reach everyone, so most
brands need to be selective about whom they target. Audience definitions
need to be meaningfully different from the population generally; they
need to be sufficient in size to satisfy the objectives; and the brand has
to have, or create, a valid right to win them over.

Note: A well-defined target audience is a vivid picture of
demographics, psychographics and needs or wants.




16
Marry the message
with the proof points
A message is only as strong as the truth that sits behind it.

While there may be many things to say about the brand or product, the
reality is that people in the real world don’t have the time or inclination
to process lots of information.

A single-minded brief contains only one key message. That message is
not a tagline. It does not try to be creative. Its sole focus is pinpointing
where the creative solution should be. Good single-minded messages
are supported only by relevant proof points. They are not shopping lists.

Note: The number of proof points that can be used varies by channel.




Align on
evaluation
Prevent costly confusion and the premature death of ideas.

Agreeing on how the ideas will be assessed is a crucial part of the process.
Decide which brief (client or creative) should be used to evaluate the work
and try to include assessment criteria in it. This will help structure more
objective conversations about the work. Currently, only 30% of brands
have evaluation criteria in place9. Ideally, these evaluation criteria are
developed and agreed by the brand and agency and turn into a shared
language around creativity.

Note: Good evaluation criteria help foster an idea’s potential rather
than act as a judgement tool.


9 BetterBriefs Project UK report 2021


                                                                          17
Tips
Use simple words
Choosing the right words is critical to clear communication. Use words that
bring clarity. Stay away from category speak, flowery language, and words
that leave things open to interpretation. Too many briefs use language
that creative people don’t understand. Only 5% of agencies feel the briefs
they receive from their clients contain clear and concise language 10.

Keep the brief brief
A good brief requires reductive thinking. It should be succinct. It should
contain ‘everything you need and nothing you don’t’. Invest more time
in shortening it as most agencies believe the briefs they receive from
brands are not succinct enough11. Practise the art of sacrifice. Put all the
extra information in the appendix.

Write and re-write
The first draft will never be the best brief. Give it the overnight test and
continue to refine and craft. Don’t be shy about sharing the brief with
others for review.




10 BetterBriefs Project global report 2021
11 BetterBriefs Project global report 2021: 54% of agencies agree that briefs are too long; 32% too short; and
   only 14% succinct


18
Insightful > insight
Making a brief insightful is more important than including an insight.
Frame the problem or opportunity interestingly. Uncover something
differentiating in the brand or product. Reveal an untapped need or a
fresh take on the audience that unlocks a commercial opportunity.

There’s no order
A brief is not a shopping list or a box-ticking exercise. Being linear about
how you filll out a template (i.e. going from top to bottom) is often not
the best way to capture and structure the information.

Don’t prescribe the solution
Dictating solutions limits creativity from the start. Appreciate the expertise
of the agency.

Scrum not relay race
Don't treat a brief as a baton pass. Get your agencies involved where
appropriate before the brief is final.




                                                                             19
Briefing
the brief
By BetterBriefs




Nearly 3/4 of marketers believe that their briefing process
could benefit from more structure12 and often the importance
of the briefing is forgotten or de-prioritised.

12 BetterBriefs Project global report 2021

                                                           2
20
A brief is
not a briefing
A brief written is a job only half done.

There’s more to a brief than writing it. The brief is the tangible output, the
briefing is the way this information is delivered. When a brief is finished,
you need to give serious thought as to how you go about this. An email
or lengthy slide deck may not be the best way. As good as a written
brief is, a good briefing provides an opportunity to create a deeper
understanding of what is required whether you're briefing one agency
or multiple. It demonstrates care. It sparks enthusiasm from the brief’s
recipients. It is a chance for agencies to interrogate the task in front of them.

Note: Immerse the agency in the problem or opportunity identified
in the brief.




Aim to
inspire
Briefs should not be creative, but briefings can be.

A good briefing sets the tone and injects energy into the start of the project,
whereas poor briefings can undermine the potential of even the best
brief. The way we experience information is almost as important as the
information itself. The briefing is a marketer’s opportunity to be creative,
share examples that inspire the agency, and kick-start the creative process.

Note: A brief sent only via email is an opportunity wasted.




                                                                               21
Right people,
right time, right place
Never brief alone.

Brands will always know more about their products and services than
agencies. Immersion is priceless for agencies trying to better understand
what’s on offer and the task outlined in the brief.

Consider expertise or points of view other than the brief writer’s to help
illustrate or highlight certain elements of the brief. Consider places or
settings that further the knowledge of the products or services being
sold. And sometimes, certain times of day lend themselves to the best
experience of a product or service.

Note: The who, where and when makes or breaks the briefing.




Get on the
same wavelength
Don’t assume it’s clear.

The transfer of information is not finished until the agency fully understands
the task at hand. A successful briefing isn’t over until the agency says,
‘I get it.’ When being briefed it is essential to ask questions until every
element in the brief is crystal clear. Agencies should be saying "no" to
briefs they don’t understand to avoid future misalignment. Too many
agencies currently accept briefs that aren't clear to them.

Note: Check in with the agency after the briefing.




22
A transfer of
responsibility
A brief is not a contract until the agency accepts it.

Once both parties agree the brief, the responsibility of addressing
the problem or the opportunity becomes the agency’s. An agency
accepting a brief becomes accountable for the work, should resource
the task appropriately and use the available budget effectively.

Note: Agencies should never accept briefs they’re not happy with.




                                                                    23
44 Belgrave Square
London
SW1X 8QS
020 7235 7020
www.ipa.co.uk

     @The_IPA @IPALearning
     linkedin.com/company/TheIPA
     #PowerBehindThePractitioners   www.betterbriefs.com

24
